[Music]
in the early 1900's traveling by ship
was all the rage White Star Line was one
of the most prominent and luxurious
shipping lines of the time catering to
the rich and famous with a reputation
like that you'd probably expect that
their ships wouldn't you know sing well
I guess popularity doesn't guarantee
smooth sailing
violet Constance Jessup learned that
lesson the hard way she survived three
disasters on three different ships but
all belonging to White Star Line so who
was this lucky or perhaps unlucky lady
and what could have possibly put her in
such similar catastrophes time after
time violet Jessop was born in Argentina
the oldest of six siblings in an Irish
immigrant family when she was just 16
they'd lost their father so their mother
decided to move the family back to Great
Britain where she found work as a ship
stewardess unfortunately her mother fell
ill a few years later and couldn't work
anymore so it was up to violet to
provide for her family she dropped out
of school to look for a job and
following in her mom's footsteps was
soon employed as an ocean liner
stewardess with the Royal Mail line this
was actually unusual for a woman her age
at that time since stewardesses back
then were generally older and more
mature looking so at her twenty-one
years of age she purposely wore dated
clothes designed for more mature women
just so she could look older she also
stayed clear of wearing makeup to help
her show any fine lines on her face it's
not often you hear of a woman trying to
dress and look older than she really is
but I get it it helped land her a job
she urgently needed a few years later in
nineteen
eleven she started working aboard White
Star Line's RMS Olympic which at the
time was the largest of all passenger
ships this is where Jessup experienced
her first ship disaster as they were
leaving the harbour a British warship
accidentally crashed into the Olympic
leaving it with two massive holes in the
hull
fortunately the ship hadn't gone too far
yet and managed to get back safely
without ending up at the bottom of the
sea nobody was hurt during this mishap
also during that time a new ship was
being built and it was the talk around
town it was said to be the Titan of the
sea the ultimate unsinkable ship that's
right I'm talking about Titanic violet
Jessop was really enjoying her job on
board the Olympic and had no intentions
of going anywhere else but everyone kept
telling her to apply for a transfer to
the headline-making sister ship they all
thought it would be the coolest ship to
work on she eventually caved into the
peer pressure and sent in her
application once on board the Titanic
she did find herself liking the improved
servants quarters and was happy to still
be working with all of her friends as we
all know by now this ship was not as
lucky as the Olympic and with almost
cruel ironing it certainly didn't live
up to its nickname the great unsinkable
titanic sunk on its maiden voyage on
April 14 1912 after crashing into an
iceberg Jessup was in her cabin when the
collision happened she was immediately
called to go and help up on deck guiding
women and children to the lifeboats
eventually she was put on one of those
boats and was handed a baby to take care
of in the freezing cold of the North
Atlantic air they waited a grueling
eight hours for help the ship Carpathia
ended up coming to the rescue
as Jessup recalled
after everyone was safely on board a
woman rushed over and grabbed the baby
out of her arms and ran away without
saying a word yeah she thought it was
strange too but she figured the frantic
woman must have been the baby's mother
so recap
she's already survived two consecutive
ship crashes at this point one in 1911
and the other a year later in 1912
now fast forward a few years to 1916
Jessup was then serving as a nurse for
the British Red Cross she was posted on
yet another sister ship to the Titanic
and owned by White Star Line HMHS
Britannic this ship's designers had
learned from the mistakes of the
previous two White Star Line disasters
and built this one to be the safest of
the three one of the biggest adjustments
was that it had way more lifeboats on
board
in fact this ship had enough lifeboats
to carry 3,600 people which was much
more than the maximum amount of
passengers it could haul compare that to
the Titanic which had a tragic shortage
an oversight that would end up costing
more people their lives anyway
the Britannic had been converted into a
hospital ship to help bring wounded
soldiers back home and as fate would so
cruelly have it yet again Jessup found
herself in a third ship disaster within
a span of five years
this time however it wasn't due to
faulty design or bad planning it was an
unexpected explosion that caused it to
sink into the Aegean Sea it's theorized
they either ran into an underwater mine
or were hit by a torpedo to this day no
one really knows what caused the
explosion that sank the Britannic
thankfully most of the passengers and
crew survived although Jessup was among
the lucky ones she did receive a pretty
serious head injury while trying to
escape in a lifeboat that was being
sucked under by the force of the sinking
vessel some years later after suffering
from constant painful headaches she
finally decided to go
to the doctor and found out that she'd
actually fractured her skull do you
think this woman was doomed with bad
luck or do you think it was good luck
that carried her through bad times
perhaps it was a little of both or that
she was just a resilient survivor even
at a young age Jessup made it through an
unlikely circumstance when she was a
little girl she got really sick and the
doctors didn't think she'd make it
through the next few months well she
obviously did and would even outlive all
her younger siblings in the end maybe
her rough early years gave her the grit
she needed to make it through all those
other tough experiences she'd have later
in life I guess we can only speculate
Jessup was unique in other ways too when
she turned 36 she finally decided to get
married
her groom 46 year-old John James Lewis
was supposedly a ship steward according
to the records the wedding took place on
October 29th 1923 it was a Monday and
probably a gray one at that if we're
talking fall in London if you're the
superstitious type then you might not be
surprised to find out that the marriage
didn't last very long at all
Jessup never did have any children which
was pretty rare in an age when a child
free lifestyle wasn't really accepted
well in any case Jessa just put all her
time and energy into her job she really
must have loved what she did for a
living since despite everything she'd
been through she continued to work as a
ship stewardess for over 40 years
she even worked on a cruise line that
took her around the world twice luckily
she never encountered another disaster
at sea again after the Britannic three
times must have been enough miss
unsinkable as she was dubbed eventually
retired to a cute little cottage in the
English countryside that she decorated
with trinkets she'd collected during her
four decades of work and adventure and
get this violet recalled a strange day
when a woman rang her up claiming to be
the little baby that this
stewardess had saved from the Titanic so
many years prior but the mysterious
caller hung up before any conversation
got started some people think this was
just a prank call but Jessup swore that
she never told anyone about the baby
she'd rescued so long ago now that's
pretty wild
passing at the age of 83 in 1971 I think
one can say that violet Jessop lived a
full and happy life giving her so many
amazing tales to tell the world boy
would it have been cool to sit down and
have a chat with this incredible woman
so do you know about other ordinary
people who ended up having extraordinary
lives let me know down in the comments
if you learn something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
a friend but hey don't go anywhere just
yet we have over 2000 cool videos for
you to check out all you have to do is
pick the left or right video click on it
and enjoy stay on the bright side of
life
you